README.md, before:

# Clkwise: AI-Powered FPGA Timing Debugger

*Revolutionizing chip design with intelligent timing closure*

---

## The Problem

**FPGA timing closure is a critical bottleneck in hardware development**

- Engineers spend **50-80% of project time on timing closure** for complex designs¹
- Modern FPGAs can have **millions of timing paths** requiring analysis²
- **70% of FPGA design failures** are attributed to timing closure issues³
- Design iterations typically require **4-12 hour synthesis/implementation cycles**⁴
- Timing closure expertise requires **5-10 years of experience** to develop⁵
- **Project delays of 3-6 months** are common due to timing challenges⁶

## Our Solution: Clkwise

**The world's first AI-powered FPGA timing debugger** that transforms complex timing reports into actionable insights in seconds.

### Core Innovation: Dual AI Pipeline

```
Raw Timing Data → Cerebras Analysis → Cohere Synthesis → Actionable Fixes
    (Milliseconds)        (<100ms)             (Smart reasoning)      (Human-readable)
```

**What makes us unique:**
- **Dual AI reasoning**: Cerebras for speed + Cohere for depth
- **Expert heuristics validation**: AI suggestions validated by timing closure experts
- **Real-time feedback**: Sub-second analysis of complex timing reports
- **Natural language output**: Convert cryptic violations into clear action items

---

## Technical Architecture

### AI-First Design
- **Primary Engine**: Cerebras (LLaMA 3.1-70B) for ultra-fast initial analysis
- **Reasoning Engine**: Cohere (Command R+) for deep synthesis and validation
- **Fallback System**: Expert heuristics ensure reliability even without AI
- **Confidence Scoring**: Every suggestion comes with reliability metrics

### Production-Ready Pipeline
```
Input Layer     → Parsing & Validation → AI Analysis → Guardrails → Output
(Vivado .rpt)     (Structured data)      (Dual AI)     (Expert rules) (Web UI)
```

### Multi-Interface Access
- **Web Dashboard**: Upload reports, view analysis, interactive chat
- **CLI Tool**: Terminal integration for developer workflows  
- **API Endpoints**: RESTful integration with existing toolchains

---

## Live Demo Experience

### Input: Vivado Timing Report
```
Path: u_dsp/mult_reg[31]/Q → u_core/add_reg[31]/D
Slack: -2.5ns (VIOLATED)
Logic Levels: 12
Routing Delay: 65%
```

### Processing: Dual AI Analysis
1. **Cerebras** (~150ms): Identifies deep logic + routing issues
3. **Validation** (~50ms): Expert heuristics verify suggestions

### Output: Actionable Insights
```
Analysis of Critical Path P0001

Issue Classification: Setup Violation
Root Causes:
   • Deep combinational logic (12 levels) 
   • Excessive routing congestion (65%)

Recommended Fixes:
1. Pipeline Optimization
   → Insert 3 pipeline stages in u_dsp module
   → Expected improvement: +3.2ns

2. Placement Strategy  
   → Add pblock to co-locate u_dsp and u_core
   → Expected improvement: +1.8ns

Implementation Considerations:
   • Pipeline adds 3-cycle latency - update protocol timing
   • Verify downstream timing assumptions

Confidence: 82% | Processing: ~500ms | Expected WNS: +0.5ns
```

---

## Market Impact & Traction

### Target Market
- **Primary**: FPGA development teams (~45,000 engineers globally)⁷
- **FPGA Market**: $9.0B in 2023, growing to $14.6B by 2028 (10.2% CAGR)⁸
- **Secondary**: ASIC design verification teams (~85,000 engineers globally)⁹
- **EDA Tools Market**: $15.2B in 2023, timing analysis represents ~15% share¹⁰
- **Expansion**: Academic institutions (1,200+ universities with FPGA programs)¹¹

### Business Model
- **Freemium SaaS**: Basic analysis free, advanced AI features paid
- **Enterprise**: On-premise deployment with custom model training
- **API Licensing**: Integration with existing EDA toolchains

### Early Validation
- Built production-ready system with dual AI pipeline
- Comprehensive test suite with real Vivado timing reports
- Modular architecture ready for immediate scaling
- Expert heuristics validated against industry best practices

---

### **Technical Excellence**
- **Production-ready architecture** with comprehensive error handling
- **Dual AI validation** ensures both speed AND accuracy
- **Expert knowledge integration** prevents AI hallucinations
- **Real-world testing** with actual Vivado timing reports

### **Strategic Platform Coverage**
- **3 sponsor integrations** in a single coherent system
- **Natural fit** for each platform's strengths
- **Scalable architecture** that grows with platform capabilities
- **Clear differentiation** from traditional timing closure tools

### **Market Readiness**
- **Immediate deployment** capability with working demo
- **Clear value proposition** that addresses real pain points
- **Scalable business model** from freemium to enterprise
- **Strong technical foundation** for rapid feature expansion

---

## The Big Picture

**Clkwise isn't just another development tool—it's the future of hardware design.**

We're transforming the most time-intensive part of chip development from a **manual, experience-based process** into an **AI-powered, data-driven optimization system**.

**Every minute saved in timing closure** translates to faster time-to-market, reduced development costs, and more innovative products reaching consumers sooner.

**We're not just debugging timing violations—we're accelerating the pace of hardware innovation itself.**

---

## Project Stucture
```
ClkWise
├── Makefile
├── README.md
├── app.py
├── backend
│   ├── Makefile
│   ├── app
│   ├── data
│   ├── hw
│   └── requirements.txt
├── docs
│   └── ARCHITECTURE.md
└── frontend2
    ├── base.html
    ├── index.html
    ├── result.html
    └── static
```
## References

¹ Xilinx UltraFast Design Methodology Guide (UG949), Chapter 4: "Timing Closure"
² AMD-Xilinx Vivado Design Suite User Guide: Implementation (UG904)
³ "FPGA Design Challenges and Solutions" - IEEE Design & Test Magazine, Vol. 38, 2021
⁴ "Modern FPGA Implementation Flow Analysis" - ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conference, 2022
⁵ "Hardware Engineering Skills Survey" - IEEE Computer Society, 2023
⁶ "FPGA Project Timeline Analysis" - Embedded Computing Design Magazine, 2023
⁷ "Global FPGA Engineering Workforce Report" - EE Times Market Research, 2023
⁸ "FPGA Market Report 2023-2028" - MarketsandMarkets Research
⁹ "Semiconductor Design Engineer Employment Statistics" - IEEE Spectrum, 2023
¹⁰ "EDA Tools Market Analysis 2023" - Grand View Research
¹¹ "Academic FPGA Programs Survey" - IEEE Education Society, 2023

*Based on industry surveys, academic research, and vendor documentation from AMD-Xilinx, Intel-Altera, IEEE publications, and EDA industry reports.*

---

*Ready to see the future of chip design? Let's make timing closure intelligent.*

---

## CLKWISE TECHNICAL OVERVIEW

CLKWISE is an AI-powered FPGA timing analysis and optimization platform that works in three stages:

1. RPT INGESTION: Parses timing report files (.rpt) and converts timing violations into structured JSON
   Command: python3 backend/app/ingest/run_pipeline.py [RPT_FILE]

2. AI OPTIMIZATION: Leverages Cerebras LLM to analyze both SystemVerilog code and timing data
   to generate optimized HDL with strategic pipeline registers and logic restructuring
   Command: python3 backend/app/llm_integration/cerebras_int_no_schema.py --timing [JSON] --verilog [SV] --out [JSON]

3. ARTIFACT EXTRACTION: Extracts optimized SystemVerilog and documentation from AI output
   Command: python3 backend/data/frontend_data/scripts/extract_sv_artifacts.py [JSON] --sv [OUT_SV] --txt [OUT_TXT]

The frontend presents an interactive diff visualization showing exactly what changes were made to fix
timing violations, with navigation tools to explore the improvements between original and optimized code.

Commit message:

local running instructions
Signed-off-by: Kirri <skirrithan@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Clkwise: AI-Powered FPGA Timing Debugger

*Revolutionizing chip design with intelligent timing closure*

---

## The Problem

**FPGA timing closure is a critical bottleneck in hardware development**

- Engineers spend **50-80% of project time on timing closure** for complex designs¹
- Modern FPGAs can have **millions of timing paths** requiring analysis²
- **70% of FPGA design failures** are attributed to timing closure issues³
- Design iterations typically require **4-12 hour synthesis/implementation cycles**⁴
- Timing closure expertise requires **5-10 years of experience** to develop⁵
- **Project delays of 3-6 months** are common due to timing challenges⁶

## Our Solution: Clkwise

**The world's first AI-powered FPGA timing debugger** that transforms complex timing reports into actionable insights in seconds.

### Core Innovation: Dual AI Pipeline

```
Raw Timing Data → Cerebras Analysis → Cohere Synthesis → Actionable Fixes
    (Milliseconds)        (<100ms)             (Smart reasoning)      (Human-readable)
```

**What makes us unique:**
- **Dual AI reasoning**: Cerebras for speed + Cohere for depth
- **Expert heuristics validation**: AI suggestions validated by timing closure experts
- **Real-time feedback**: Sub-second analysis of complex timing reports
- **Natural language output**: Convert cryptic violations into clear action items

---

## Technical Architecture

### AI-First Design
- **Primary Engine**: Cerebras (LLaMA 3.1-70B) for ultra-fast initial analysis
- **Reasoning Engine**: Cohere (Command R+) for deep synthesis and validation
- **Fallback System**: Expert heuristics ensure reliability even without AI
- **Confidence Scoring**: Every suggestion comes with reliability metrics

### Production-Ready Pipeline
```
Input Layer     → Parsing & Validation → AI Analysis → Guardrails → Output
(Vivado .rpt)     (Structured data)      (Dual AI)     (Expert rules) (Web UI)
```

### Multi-Interface Access
- **Web Dashboard**: Upload reports, view analysis, interactive chat
- **CLI Tool**: Terminal integration for developer workflows  
- **API Endpoints**: RESTful integration with existing toolchains

---

## Live Demo Experience

### Input: Vivado Timing Report
```
Path: u_dsp/mult_reg[31]/Q → u_core/add_reg[31]/D
Slack: -2.5ns (VIOLATED)
Logic Levels: 12
Routing Delay: 65%
```

### Processing: Dual AI Analysis
1. **Cerebras** (~150ms): Identifies deep logic + routing issues
3. **Validation** (~50ms): Expert heuristics verify suggestions

### Output: Actionable Insights
```
Analysis of Critical Path P0001

Issue Classification: Setup Violation
Root Causes:
   • Deep combinational logic (12 levels) 
   • Excessive routing congestion (65%)

Recommended Fixes:
1. Pipeline Optimization
   → Insert 3 pipeline stages in u_dsp module
   → Expected improvement: +3.2ns

2. Placement Strategy  
   → Add pblock to co-locate u_dsp and u_core
   → Expected improvement: +1.8ns

Implementation Considerations:
   • Pipeline adds 3-cycle latency - update protocol timing
   • Verify downstream timing assumptions

Confidence: 82% | Processing: ~500ms | Expected WNS: +0.5ns
```

---

## Market Impact & Traction

### Target Market
- **Primary**: FPGA development teams (~45,000 engineers globally)⁷
- **FPGA Market**: $9.0B in 2023, growing to $14.6B by 2028 (10.2% CAGR)⁸
- **Secondary**: ASIC design verification teams (~85,000 engineers globally)⁹
- **EDA Tools Market**: $15.2B in 2023, timing analysis represents ~15% share¹⁰
- **Expansion**: Academic institutions (1,200+ universities with FPGA programs)¹¹

### Business Model
- **Freemium SaaS**: Basic analysis free, advanced AI features paid
- **Enterprise**: On-premise deployment with custom model training
- **API Licensing**: Integration with existing EDA toolchains

### Early Validation
- Built production-ready system with dual AI pipeline
- Comprehensive test suite with real Vivado timing reports
- Modular architecture ready for immediate scaling
- Expert heuristics validated against industry best practices

---

### **Technical Excellence**
- **Production-ready architecture** with comprehensive error handling
- **Dual AI validation** ensures both speed AND accuracy
- **Expert knowledge integration** prevents AI hallucinations
- **Real-world testing** with actual Vivado timing reports

### **Strategic Platform Coverage**
- **3 sponsor integrations** in a single coherent system
- **Natural fit** for each platform's strengths
- **Scalable architecture** that grows with platform capabilities
- **Clear differentiation** from traditional timing closure tools

### **Market Readiness**
- **Immediate deployment** capability with working demo
- **Clear value proposition** that addresses real pain points
- **Scalable business model** from freemium to enterprise
- **Strong technical foundation** for rapid feature expansion

---

## The Big Picture

**Clkwise isn't just another development tool—it's the future of hardware design.**

We're transforming the most time-intensive part of chip development from a **manual, experience-based process** into an **AI-powered, data-driven optimization system**.

**Every minute saved in timing closure** translates to faster time-to-market, reduced development costs, and more innovative products reaching consumers sooner.

**We're not just debugging timing violations—we're accelerating the pace of hardware innovation itself.**

---

## Project Stucture
```
ClkWise
├── Makefile
├── README.md
├── app.py
├── backend
│   ├── Makefile
│   ├── app
│   ├── data
│   ├── hw
│   └── requirements.txt
├── docs
│   └── ARCHITECTURE.md
└── frontend2
    ├── base.html
    ├── index.html
    ├── result.html
    └── static
```

## To Run Locally
1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Clkwise.git
   cd Clkwise
   ```

2. **Install Required Python Dependencies and estabish API Keys:**
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate
   pip install -r requirenments.txt
   export CEREBRAS_API_KEY=your_actual_api_key_here
   ```

3. **Run App**
   ```bash
   python3 app.py
   ```

4. **Open local link via web browser**   
   Open your web browser and navigate to the local app link (e.g., http://127.0.0.1:5000).
   **Usage Steps:**
   1. Upload your HDL and timing report files.
   2. Click 'Run Analysis' to start the AI-powered timing optimization.
   3. Download the patched HDL file generated by the tool.
   4. Run synthesis on the patched HDL and observe the improvements!

## References

¹ Xilinx UltraFast Design Methodology Guide (UG949), Chapter 4: "Timing Closure"
² AMD-Xilinx Vivado Design Suite User Guide: Implementation (UG904)
³ "FPGA Design Challenges and Solutions" - IEEE Design & Test Magazine, Vol. 38, 2021
⁴ "Modern FPGA Implementation Flow Analysis" - ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conference, 2022
⁵ "Hardware Engineering Skills Survey" - IEEE Computer Society, 2023
⁶ "FPGA Project Timeline Analysis" - Embedded Computing Design Magazine, 2023
⁷ "Global FPGA Engineering Workforce Report" - EE Times Market Research, 2023
⁸ "FPGA Market Report 2023-2028" - MarketsandMarkets Research
⁹ "Semiconductor Design Engineer Employment Statistics" - IEEE Spectrum, 2023
¹⁰ "EDA Tools Market Analysis 2023" - Grand View Research
¹¹ "Academic FPGA Programs Survey" - IEEE Education Society, 2023

*Based on industry surveys, academic research, and vendor documentation from AMD-Xilinx, Intel-Altera, IEEE publications, and EDA industry reports.*

---

*Ready to see the future of chip design? Let's make timing closure intelligent.*

---

## CLKWISE TECHNICAL OVERVIEW

CLKWISE is an AI-powered FPGA timing analysis and optimization platform that works in three stages:

1. RPT INGESTION: Parses timing report files (.rpt) and converts timing violations into structured JSON
   Command: python3 backend/app/ingest/run_pipeline.py [RPT_FILE]

2. AI OPTIMIZATION: Leverages Cerebras LLM to analyze both SystemVerilog code and timing data
   to generate optimized HDL with strategic pipeline registers and logic restructuring
   Command: python3 backend/app/llm_integration/cerebras_int_no_schema.py --timing [JSON] --verilog [SV] --out [JSON]

3. ARTIFACT EXTRACTION: Extracts optimized SystemVerilog and documentation from AI output
   Command: python3 backend/data/frontend_data/scripts/extract_sv_artifacts.py [JSON] --sv [OUT_SV] --txt [OUT_TXT]

The frontend presents an interactive diff visualization showing exactly what changes were made to fix
timing violations, with navigation tools to explore the improvements between original and optimized code.
